---
layout: post
title: A Second Time
---

I have never understood why someone would pick a title that would give
away what the entire story is about. Now the question is, do I reveal
why I picked this title now, or do I wait until the very end. I really
like the tldr;, but I have never liked to write them. So I guess you are
going to have to hang around to find out about the title.

We will not always be able to go it alone. Sometimes we need a little
push. The push can come in many forms. A friend who provides
encouraging, or even discouraging, words can drive us to do things we
would have never done without that push. Sometimes it comes in the form
of a spouse or loved one who always smiles at our less than brilliant
ideas, but helps us mold those ideas into genius realities.

One thing I like to do is decide to mow the yard. I live in the middle
of no where on a hill. The yard is not easy to mow, and Missouri soil
has enough rocks to keep a [Rock
Biter](https://encrypted-tbn2.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcRnvYheZeemRk8ORLNCOp5YOA2F6VyfRx4JIxpGwT0ebiQCVCt-)
happy. My yard is also one of the biggest
yards around. If it was any larger I'd have to mow it with a tractor.
Every time I start to mow it something breaks. It takes more than a day
to get this job done. How is this an encouragement? Well with mowing like
this you will always avoid it by getting the other things done first.
Unfortunately when I'm done the yard still needs mowed.

Am I really writing about mowing in the middle of the winter? I must
really miss summer. I've also lead you down this path and haven't told
you anything about the title. I guess you are going to have to continue
to read. Although I'd like you to sit back and guess what this is about?
Maybe have a cup of coffee while you think. That is why I do when I
don't know what to write about. Maybe I will have one too and try to
figure out where we are going with this.

Wow, that is hot. I may have burnt my lip. I guess I'll get on with it.
Although you can finish your cup and this idea will still be here when
you get back.

What were we talking about? Oh, yeah, encouragement. This, as well as
the mowing, I call the procrastination method. You can get a lot done
when you are procrastinating something else. Sometimes procrastinating
just isn't enough to make you do the things you know you should. Like
writing a blog post. This is where a friendly wager can make all the
difference in the world.

I would like to blog frequently. I really want to get better at writing,
and I have so many things in my head that I want to share with the
world. This is where a plan comes together. Sometimes only friendly
competition will give you the momentum you need. What kind of
competition would be complete without a wager?

Last week I started a ["pact"](http://wiki.boochtek.com/pact) with
[Craig](http://blog.boochtek.com/). We decided that we would write a
blog post every week and have it posted by Sunday at 11:59 pm. What a
great way to start your week? How can we make Monday seem even more
exciting? I know, let's force the stress to be the day before instead.

We couldn't stop there. A little hand shake and encouraging just wasn't
going to cut it with this pact. We needed a little extra motivation. I
hope what I'm about to say isn't against gambling laws in my state. We
put a small wager. Each week we will put $1 into a pot. If one of us
writes a post, and the other doesn't, then the writer gets all the money
in the pot. Impressive, I know. Imagine all the things I can buy for $1.

How long can this motivation last? This is only the second post (not why
this is title a second time, but not bad). That is why we have a pot.
Each post becomes worth more and more money. This one is worth $2 to me.
I guess $4 if you consider the loss of $2 that I would have to pay Craig
if I chose to forgo this week. With each post increasing the risk/reward
we are far more likely to keep going. You will know the success of this
experiment by watching as we go. What would be even better that a lot
more work for search spiders? How about you joining our friendly little
"pact?"

Ok, so you want to know about the title. It really is not that exciting.
I hate to disappoint you, but the title is because we've done this
before. A few years back we worked on the same team, and started this
with the whole team. Rather, we talked about it. This time it is for
real. Ok, now go back and read that last sentence like a movie trailer
announcer for [Sharknado](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sharknado).
